# LessonTwo

sdadasdad

Exercise 4:

- Answer these questions yourself and try to give as much information as possible.

1- Where do you live?

I'm currently living in Asunción,Paraguay.

2- How long have you lived there?

I've lived here since I was born, so basically is the city I know most.

3- What do you like about your home town?

I wish I could say a lot of things, but I like this town only because I can visit my mother and sibling.

4- What other countries have you visited?

Well I've visited Mexico, Brasil, Chile, my favorite country to visit is Mexico,always.

5- Where did you go on holidays last year?

I didn´t travel last year, I passed my holiday doing shift at the fire station.

6- How often do you go to the seaside?

Rarely , I prefer some urban locations.

Exercise 5:

Listen this audio:  

[02-AudioTrack 02.mp3](LessonTwo%202c95978fe91d4914b63acfa32a437b36/02-AudioTrack_02.mp3)

What kind of holiday do you like?

I work so hard to do nothing.

What was the last place you visited on holiday?

I love traveling by boat, When I was there, I saw 

What kinds of transport do you use regularly?

I live in a big city Shangai. I go to work by bus witch usually takes about 20 minutes. 

too scared.

I often visit my parents by train

How long have you lived in your hometown?

I lived with my parents when I was younger

Have you traveled to many different places in your country?

I didn't realize how cold was  Beijing.

Grammar Reference

Present Simple

|                    + | - | ? |
| --- | --- | --- |
| I live | I don’t live | Do I live? |
| he/she/it | he/she/it doesn’t live | Does she live there? |
| we live | we don’t live | do we live? |
| you live | you don’t live | Do you live? |
| they live | they don’t live | Do they live? |

Past simple

| + | - | ? |
| --- | --- | --- |
| I lived | i didn’t live | did I live? |
| sh/she/it | she didnt’t live | Did she live? |
| we lived | we didn’t live | Did we live? |
| you lived | you didn’t live | Did you live |
| they lived | they didn’t lived | Did they live |

Present Perfect 

| + | - | ? |
| --- | --- | --- |
| I have lived | I haven't lived | Have I lived? |
|  |  |  |