# DayOne

Exercise 1

Page: Page: **7 (Ans: Page:104)**

Present Simple - 

The present simple is used to talk about:

1. Permanent situations
2. Things which happen often repeatedly

> I visit my grandparents in Scotland every summer
> 

> People often send postcards from interesting places.
> 

 3. Facts of nature or science

> Traveling by plane uses a lot of energy.
> 

> Birds migrate in winter.
> 

 4. Timetables

Past simple

> Completed actions or events in the past
> 

> Actions or events that happened at a specific time in the past (when)
> 

> Things which happened often or regularly in the past
> 

Present perfect simple

1. Actions which started in the past and continue now

> I’ve worked abroad for **ten** years.
> 

> He has lived in Germany **since** 2002
> 
1. Actions in the past when time is not finished.

> I’ve visited many art galleries this year. (This year is not finished)
> 

> He has lived in a lot of different places in his life.(His life is not finished)
> 
1. Recent events which are related to the present.

> Where’s my camera? Oh no, someone has stolen
> 

> Is Sarah having dinner with us? No, she has gone  back to the campsite to rest.
> 

---

**Present perfect:** subject + has/have past participle

Practice exercises

1- The sun often            in Moroco (shine) : Tense: Present  Rule: 2

2- It’s late Where           ?(you/go) : Tense: Present Perfect Rule: 3

3- What time          ? (the bus/ leave) Tense: Present Rule: 4

4- John ____ ?  (go) to Finland last year, but he ____ (like) Tense: Past Simple Past    Rule:4

5- The world ____ (see) a massive shift in transport and tourism in the last decade. Tense: Present Perfect simple: Rule: 1

6-Cruise ships ____?the Atlantic with the majority of people before air travel became so affordable. 

Tense: Past simple: Rule: 3